---
layout: page
title: Publications
tags: [publications]
comments: false
---

Conference
=====

0. Antoine Turquet and Johan Kero and **Quentin Brissaud** et al. (2020) In-depth seismo-acoustic analysis of mining-induced Mw 4.9 Kiruna earthquake. *AGU Fall Meeting 2020*
1. Attila Komjathy and Siddharth Krishnamoorthy and Daniel C Bowman and **Quentin Brissaud** et al. (2020) Evidence of Ionospheric Perturbations from a Buried Chemical Explosion Captured Using High-Rate GNSS Measurements. *AGU Fall Meeting 2020*
2. Voon Hui Lai and Zhongwen Zhan and **Quentin Brissaud**. (2019) Insight on the Kilauea caldera evolution through the 2018 earthquake sequence. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
3. **Quentin Brissaud** and Victor C Tsai and Daniel C Bowden et al. (2019) A machine-learning model to predict surface-wave amplification in sedimentary basins. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
4. Panagiotis Vergados and Attila Komjathy and **Quentin Brissaud** et al. (2019) Investigating the Venusian surface-atmosphere dynamic coupling. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
5. Robert Arthur Preston and **Quentin Brissaud** and Chi O Ao et al. (2019) Modeling seismically-induced acoustic waves on Venus. *AGU Fall Meeting 2019*
6. Léo Martire and **Quentin Brissaud** and Raphaël F Garcia et al. (2018) Numerical simulations of acoustic and infrasound waves in the coupled ground-atmosphere system: sensitivity study to atmospheric conditions, synergy between balloon and ground …. *EGU General Assembly Conference Abstracts*
7. **Quentin Brissaud** and Daniel C Bowden and Victor C Tsai et al. (2018) Path effects on surface-wave amplification in sedimentary basins. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
8. Leo Martire and Raphael Garcia and Roland Martin and **Quentin Brissaud** et al. (2018) Numerical simulations of atmospheric infrasound generated by surface vibrations (ground impact, earthquake, microbaroms), comparison with experimental data. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
9. **Quentin Brissaud** and Attila Komjathy and Raphael Garcia et al. (2017) Numerical modeling of the 2017 active seismic infrasound balloon experiment. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
10. Raphael Garcia and **Quentin Brissaud** and Anthony Sladen et al. (2016) Applications of acoustic-gravity waves numerical modeling to tsunami signals observed by gravimetry satellites in very low orbit. *2016 AGU Fall Meeting*
11. **Quentin Brissaud** and Raphael Garcia and Roland Martin et al. (2016) Earth-Atmosphere system modeling for acoustic and gravity wave propagation. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
12. **Quentin Brissaud** and Raphael Garcia and Roland Martin et al. (2016) Applications of acoustic-gravity waves numerical modelling to tsunami signals observed by gravimetry satellites in very low orbit.. *EGU General Assembly Conference Abstracts*
13. Raphael Garcia and **Quentin Brissaud** and Roland Martin et al. (2015) Finite Difference Simulations of Acoustic and Gravity Wave Propagation in Mars Atmosphere: Applications to INSIGHT NASA Mission and Mars Microphone Experiments. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*
14. Roland Martin and **Quentin Brissaud** and Raphael Garcia et al. (2015) Numerical modeling of acoustic and gravity waves propagation in the atmosphere using a spectral element method. *EGU General Assembly Conference Abstracts*
15. Raphael Garcia and **Quentin Brissaud** and Roland Martin et al. (2014) Modeling of acoustic and gravity waves propagation through the atmosphere with spectral element method. *2014 AGU Fall Meeting*
16. Raphael Garcia and **Quentin Brissaud** and Roland Martin et al. (2014) What can we do with an atmospheric seismometer moving at 8 km/s?. *AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts*

Journal
=====

0. **Quentin Brissaud** and Siddharth Krishnamoorthy and Jennifer Jackson et al. (2021) Detection of small-magnitude Earthquakesusing balloon-borne infrasound sensors. *Earth and Space Science Open Archive ESSOAr*, ():
1. Voon Hui Lai and Zhongwen Zhan and Osamu Sandanbata and **Quentin Brissaud** et al. (2021) Inflation and Asymmetric Collapse at Kilauea Summit during the 2018 Eruption from Seismic and Infrasound Analyses. **, ():
2. **Quentin Brissaud** and Daniel C Bowden and Victor C Tsai et al. (2020) Extension of the Basin Rayleigh‐Wave Amplification Theory to Include Basin‐Edge Effects. *Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America*, 3.0(110.0):1305-1322
3. **Quentin Brissaud** and Victor C Tsai et al. (2019) Validation of a fast semi-analytic method for surface-wave propagation in layered media. *Geophysical Journal International*, 2.0(219.0):1405-1420
4. Aymeric Spiga and Don Banfield and Nicholas A Teanby and ... and **Quentin Brissaud** et al. (2018) Atmospheric science with InSight. **, 7.0(214.0):1-64
5. Alexis Bottero and Paul Cristini and Dimitri Komatitsch and **Quentin Brissaud**. (2018) Broadband transmission losses and time dispersion maps from time-domain numerical simulations in ocean acoustics. *The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America*, 3.0(144.0):EL222-EL228
6. Léo Martire and **Quentin Brissaud** and Voon Hui Lai et al. (2018) Numerical simulation of the atmospheric signature of artificial and natural seismic events. *Geophysical Research Letters*, 21.0(45.0):12,085-12,093
7.  and **Quentin Brissaud**. (2017) Modélisation numérique des ondes atmosphériques issues des couplages solide/océan/atmosphère et applications. **, ():
8. **Quentin Brissaud** and Roland Martin and Raphaël F Garcia et al. (2017) Hybrid Galerkin numerical modelling of elastodynamics and compressible Navier–Stokes couplings: applications to seismo-gravito acoustic waves. *Geophysical Journal International*, 2.0(210.0):1047-1069
9. Raphael F Garcia and **Quentin Brissaud** and Lucie Rolland et al. (2017) Finite-difference modeling of acoustic and gravity wave propagation in Mars atmosphere: application to infrasounds emitted by meteor impacts. **, 1.0(211.0):547-570
10. **Quentin Brissaud** and Roland Martin and Raphaël F Garcia et al. (2016) Finite-difference numerical modelling of gravitoacoustic wave propagation in a windy and attenuating atmosphere. *Geophysical Journal International*, 1.0(206.0):308-327
11. David J Stevenson and James A Cutts and David Mimoun and ... and **Quentin Brissaud** et al. (2015) Probing the interior structure of Venus. **, ():

